README.adoc, before:

// Copyright (c) 2019 IBM Corporation and others.
// Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives
// 4.0 International (CC BY-ND 4.0)
//   https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/
//
// Contributors:
//     IBM Corporation
:projectid: rest-client-angular
:page-layout: guide-multipane
:page-duration: 20 minutes
:page-description: Explore how to access a simple RESTful web service and consume its resources with Angular in Open Liberty.
:page-essential: false
:page-guide-catagory: none
:page-permalink: /guides/{projectid}
:page-releasedate: 2019-06-21
:page-related-guides: ['rest-intro', 'rest-client-java', 'rest-client-angularjs']
:page-seo-title: Consuming RESTful web services with Angular
:page-seo-description: A tutorial on how to consume microservices with the Angular framework
:common-includes: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenLiberty/guides-common/master
:source-highlighter: prettify
:guide-author: Open Liberty
= Consuming a RESTful web service with Angular

[.hidden]
NOTE: This repository contains the guide documentation source. To view the guide in published form,
view it on the https://openliberty.io/guides/{projectid}.html[Open Liberty website].

Explore how to access a simple RESTful web service and consume its resources with Angular in Open
Liberty.

// =================================================================================================
// Introduction
// =================================================================================================

== What you'll learn

https://angular.io[Angular^] is a framework for creating interactive web applications.
Angular applications are written in HTML, CSS, and
https://www.typescriptlang.org[TypeScript^], a variant of JavaScript. Angular helps you
create responsive and intuitive applications that download once and run as a single web
page. Consuming REST services with your Angular application allows you to request
only the data and operations that you need, minimizing loading times.

You will learn how to access a REST service and deserialize the returned JSON that
contains a list of artists and their albums by using an Angular service and the Angular
HTTP Client. You will then present this data using an Angular component.

The REST service that provides the artists and albums resource was written for you in
advance and responds with the [hotspot]`artists.json`.

The Angular application was created and configured for you in the `frontend`
directory. It contains the default starter application. There are many files that make
up an Angular application, but you only need to edit only a few to consume the REST
service and display its data.

Angular applications must be compiled before they can be used. The Angular compilation
step was configured as part of the Maven build. You can use the `start` folder of
this guide as a template for getting started with your own applications built on
Angular and Open Liberty.

artists.json
[source, json, linenums, role="code_column"]
----
include::finish/src/resources/artists.json[]
----

You will implement an Angular client that consumes this JSON and displays its contents
at the `\http://localhost:9080/app` URL.

To learn more about REST services and how you can write them, see
https://openliberty.io/guides/rest-intro.html[Creating a RESTful web service^].


// =================================================================================================
// Getting Started
// =================================================================================================
[role='command']
include::{common-includes}/gitclone.adoc[]


// =================================================================================================
// Starting the service
// =================================================================================================

== Starting the service

Before you begin the implementation, start the provided REST service so that
the artist JSON is available to you.

Navigate to the `start` directory to begin.

[role='command']
include::{common-includes}/devmode-start.adoc[]

After you start the server, you can find your artist JSON at the
http://localhost:9080/artists[http://localhost:9080/artists^] URL.

You can rebuild the front end at any time. To do so, run Maven with the
`generate-resources` goal:
[role='command']
----
mvn generate-resources
----

Any local changes to your TypeScript and HTML are picked up when you build the
front end. After you start the Open Liberty server, you don't need to restart it.


// =================================================================================================
// Guide
// =================================================================================================

== Importing the HTTP client

Your application needs a way to communicate with RESTful web services to retrieve their
resources. In this case, the provided Angular application needs to communicate with the
artists service to retrieve the artists JSON. While there are various ways to perform
this task, Angular contains a built-in HTTP Client module that you can use.

Begin by importing the Angular HTTP Client module into the root module.

app.module.ts
[source, javascript, linenums, role="code_column"]
----
include::finish/src/main/frontend/src/app/app.module.ts[]
----

Angular applications consist of modules, which are groups of classes that
perform specific functions. The Angular framework provides its own modules
for applications to use. One of these modules, the HTTP Client module, includes
convenience classes that make it easier and quicker for you to consume a RESTful API
from your application.

The provided application is organized into a module, called the root module, and
defined in the [hotspot]`app.module.ts` file. You must import the HTTP Client module
into the root module for its classes to be accessible from the application's code.

[role="code_command hotspot", subs="quotes"]
----
#Update the `app.module.ts` file.#
`src/main/frontend/src/app/app.module.ts`
----
[role="edit_command_text"]
Import the [hotspot=importHttpClientModule]`HttpClientModule` class into the file, then
update the [hotspot=importsArray]`imports` array within the
[hotspot=atNgModule]`@NgModule` declaration to include
[hotspot=httpClientModule]`HttpClientModule`.

== Creating the Angular component

You need to create the component that is used in the application to acquire and display
data from the REST API. The component file contains two classes: the service, which
handles data access, and the component itself, which handles the presentation of the
data. The provided Angular application already contains a component.

app.component.ts
[source, javascript, linenums, role="code_column"]
----
include::finish/src/main/frontend/src/app/app.component.ts[]
----

=== Defining a service to fetch data

Services are classes in Angular that are designed to share their functionality across
entire applications. A good service performs only one function, and it performs this
function well. In this case, the `ArtistsService` class requests artists data from the
REST service.

[role="code_command hotspot", subs="quotes"]
----
#Update the `app.component.ts` file.#
`src/main/frontend/src/app/app.component.ts`
----
[role="edit_command_text"]
Create the entire [hotspot=artistsServiceClass]`ArtistsService` class with the
[hotspot=atInjectable]`@Injectable` annotation. Add the
[hotspot=importHttpClient]`HttpClient` and [hotspot=importInjectable]`Injectable`
import statements at the top.

The file imports the [hotspot=importHttpClient]`HttpClient` class and the
[hotspot=importInjectable]`Injectable` decorator.

The [hotspot=artistsServiceClass]`ArtistsService` class is defined. While it shares the
file of the component class [hotspot=appComponentClass]`AppComponent`, it can also be
defined in its own file. The class is annotated by [hotspot=atInjectable]`@Injectable`
so instances of it can be provided to other classes anywhere in the application.

The class injects an instance of the [hotspot=httpClientInstance]`HttpClient` class,
which it uses to request data from the REST API. It contains the
[hotspot=artistsUrl]`ARTISTS_URL` constant, which points to the API endpoint it
requests data from. The URL does not contain a host name because the artists API
endpoint is accessible from the same host as the Angular application. You can send
requests to external APIs by specifying the full URL. Finally, it implements a
[hotspot=fetchArtistsMethod]`fetchArtists()` method that makes the request and returns
the result.

To obtain the data for display on the page, the
[hotspot=fetchArtistsMethod]`fetchArtists()` method tries to use the injected
[hotspot=httpInstanceAndAwaitFeatureAndHttpGetAndToPromise]`http` instance to perform a
`GET` HTTP request to the [hotspot=artistsUrl]`ARTISTS_URL` constant. If successful, it
returns the result. If an error occurs, it prints the error message to the console.

The [hotspot=fetchArtistsMethod]`fetchArtists()` method uses a feature of JavaScript
called [hotspot=asyncFeature]`async`/
[hotspot=httpInstanceAndAwaitFeatureAndHttpGetAndToPromise]`await` to make requests and
receive responses without preventing the application from working while it waits. For
the result of the
[hotspot=httpInstanceAndAwaitFeatureAndHttpGetAndToPromise]`HttpClient.get()` method to
be compatible with this feature, it must be converted to a Promise by invoking its
[hotspot=httpInstanceAndAwaitFeatureAndHttpGetAndToPromise]`toPromise()` method. A
Promise is how JavaScript represents the state of an asynchronous operation. If you
want to learn more, check out https://promisejs.org[^] for an introduction.

=== Defining a component to consume a service

Components are the basic building blocks of Angular application user interfaces.
Components are made up of a TypeScript class annotated with the
[hotspot=atComponent]`@Component` annotation and the HTML template file (specified by
[hotspot=templateUrl]`templateUrl`) and CSS style files (specified by
[hotspot=styleUrls]`styleUrls`.)

Update the [hotspot=appComponentClass]`AppComponent` class to use the artists service
to fetch the artists data and save it so the component can display it.

[role="code_command hotspot", subs="quotes"]
----
#Update the `app.component.ts` file.#
`src/main/frontend/src/app/app.component.ts`
----
[role="edit_command_text"]
Replace the entire [hotspot=appComponentClass]`AppComponent` class with the
[hotspot=atComponent]`@Component` annotation. Add
[hotspot=importOnInitAndAngularCorePackage]`OnInit` to the list of imported classes at
the top.

The [hotspot=providersProperty]`providers` property on the
[hotspot=atComponent]`@Component` annotation indicates that this component provides the
[hotspot=artistsServiceClass]`ArtistsService` to other classes in the application.

[hotspot=appComponentClass]`AppComponent` implements [hotspot=onInitInterface]`OnInit`,
which is a special interface called a lifecycle hook. When Angular displays, updates,
or removes a component, it calls a specific function, the lifecycle hook, on the
component so the component can run code in response to this event. This component
responds to the [hotspot=onInitInterface]`OnInit` event via the
[hotspot=ngOnInitMethod]`ngOnInit` method, which fetches and populates the component's
template with data when it is initialized for display. The file imports the
[hotspot=importOnInitAndAngularCorePackage]`OnInit` interface from the
[hotspot=importOnInitAndAngularCorePackage]`@angular/core` package.

[hotspot=artistsClassMember]`artists` is a class member of type `any[]` that starts out
as an empty array. It holds the artists retrieved from the service so the template can
display them.

An instance of the [hotspot=artistsServiceInstanceDeclaration]`ArtistsService` class is
injected into the constructor and is accessible by any function that is defined in the
class. The [hotspot=ngOnInitMethod]`ngOnInit` function uses the
[hotspot=artistsServiceInstance]`artistsService` instance to request the artists data.
Since the [hotspot=fetchArtistsMethod]`fetchArtists()` method is an `async` function,
it returns a Promise. To retrieve the data from the request,
[hotspot=ngOnInitMethod]`ngOnInit` calls the [hotspot=thenClause]`then()` method on the
Promise which takes in the data and stores it to the
[hotspot=artistsClassMember]`artists` class member.

== Creating the Angular component template

Now that you have a service to fetch the data and a component to store it in, you
will create a template to specify how the data will be displayed on the page. When you
visit the page in the browser, the component populates the template to display
the artists data with formatting.

[role="code_command hotspot", subs="quotes"]
----
#Replace the component's template file `app.component.html`.#
`src/main/frontend/src/app/app.component.html`
----

app.component.html
[source, html, linenums, role="code_column"]
----
include::finish/src/main/frontend/src/app/app.component.html[]
----

The template contains a [hotspot=artistsDiv]`div` element that is enumerated using the
`*ngFor` directive. The `artist` variable is bound to the `artists` member of the
component. The div element itself and all elements contained within it are repeated for
each artist, and the [hotspot=artistNameAndAlbumsLengthPlaceholders]`{{ artist.name }}`
and [hotspot=artistNameAndAlbumsLengthPlaceholders]`{{ artist.albums.length }}`
placeholders are populated with the information from each artist. The same strategy is
used to display each [hotspot=albumDiv]`album` by each artist.

The Open Liberty server is already started, and the REST service is running. You can
recompile the front end by running the following command:
[role='command']
```
mvn generate-resources
```

Then, point your browser to the web application root
http://localhost:9080/app[http://localhost:9080/app^] to see the following output:

[subs="quotes", role="no_copy"]
----
foo wrote 2 albums:
    Album titled *album_one* by *foo* contains *12* tracks
    Album tilted *album_two* by *foo* contains *15* tracks
bar wrote 1 albums:
    Album titled *foo walks into a bar* by *bar* contains *12* tracks
dj wrote 0 albums:
----


== Testing the Angular client

No explicit code directly uses the consumed artist JSON, so you don't need to write
any test cases.

Whenever you change and build your Angular implementation, the application root at
http://localhost:9080/app[http://localhost:9080/app^] reflects the changes
automatically. You can visit the root to manually check whether the artist JSON was
consumed correctly. You can rebuild only your Angular front end by running the
following command:
[role='command']
```
mvn generate-resources
```

When you are done checking the application root, exit development mode by
pressing `CTRL+C` in the shell session where you ran the server,
or by typing `q` and then pressing the `enter/return` key.

Although the Angular application that this guide shows you how to build is simple,
when you build more complex Angular applications, testing becomes a crucial part
of your development lifecycle. If you need to write test cases, follow the official
unit testing and end-to-end testing documentation on the
https://angular.io/guide/testing[official Angular page^].



== Great work! You're done!

You just accessed a simple RESTful web service and consumed its resources by using
Angular in Open Liberty.

include::{common-includes}/attribution.adoc[subs="attributes"]

Commit message:

Added clarification to use curl for app root

README.adoc, after:

// Copyright (c) 2019 IBM Corporation and others.
// Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives
// 4.0 International (CC BY-ND 4.0)
//   https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/
//
// Contributors:
//     IBM Corporation
:projectid: rest-client-angular
:page-layout: guide-multipane
:page-duration: 20 minutes
:page-description: Explore how to access a simple RESTful web service and consume its resources with Angular in Open Liberty.
:page-essential: false
:page-guide-catagory: none
:page-permalink: /guides/{projectid}
:page-releasedate: 2019-06-21
:page-related-guides: ['rest-intro', 'rest-client-java', 'rest-client-angularjs']
:page-seo-title: Consuming RESTful web services with Angular
:page-seo-description: A tutorial on how to consume microservices with the Angular framework
:common-includes: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenLiberty/guides-common/master
:source-highlighter: prettify
:guide-author: Open Liberty
= Consuming a RESTful web service with Angular

[.hidden]
NOTE: This repository contains the guide documentation source. To view the guide in published form,
view it on the https://openliberty.io/guides/{projectid}.html[Open Liberty website].

Explore how to access a simple RESTful web service and consume its resources with Angular in Open
Liberty.

// =================================================================================================
// Introduction
// =================================================================================================

== What you'll learn

https://angular.io[Angular^] is a framework for creating interactive web applications.
Angular applications are written in HTML, CSS, and
https://www.typescriptlang.org[TypeScript^], a variant of JavaScript. Angular helps you
create responsive and intuitive applications that download once and run as a single web
page. Consuming REST services with your Angular application allows you to request
only the data and operations that you need, minimizing loading times.

You will learn how to access a REST service and deserialize the returned JSON that
contains a list of artists and their albums by using an Angular service and the Angular
HTTP Client. You will then present this data using an Angular component.

The REST service that provides the artists and albums resource was written for you in
advance and responds with the [hotspot]`artists.json`.

The Angular application was created and configured for you in the `frontend`
directory. It contains the default starter application. There are many files that make
up an Angular application, but you only need to edit only a few to consume the REST
service and display its data.

Angular applications must be compiled before they can be used. The Angular compilation
step was configured as part of the Maven build. You can use the `start` folder of
this guide as a template for getting started with your own applications built on
Angular and Open Liberty.

artists.json
[source, json, linenums, role="code_column"]
----
include::finish/src/resources/artists.json[]
----

You will implement an Angular client that consumes this JSON and displays its contents
at the `\http://localhost:9080/app` URL.

To learn more about REST services and how you can write them, see
https://openliberty.io/guides/rest-intro.html[Creating a RESTful web service^].


// =================================================================================================
// Getting Started
// =================================================================================================
[role='command']
include::{common-includes}/gitclone.adoc[]


// =================================================================================================
// Starting the service
// =================================================================================================

== Starting the service

Before you begin the implementation, start the provided REST service so that
the artist JSON is available to you.

Navigate to the `start` directory to begin.

[role='command']
include::{common-includes}/devmode-start.adoc[]

After you start the server, you can find your artist JSON at the
http://localhost:9080/artists[http://localhost:9080/artists^] URL.

You can rebuild the front end at any time. To do so, run Maven with the
`generate-resources` goal:
[role='command']
----
mvn generate-resources
----

Any local changes to your TypeScript and HTML are picked up when you build the
front end. After you start the Open Liberty server, you don't need to restart it.


// =================================================================================================
// Guide
// =================================================================================================

== Importing the HTTP client

Your application needs a way to communicate with RESTful web services to retrieve their
resources. In this case, the provided Angular application needs to communicate with the
artists service to retrieve the artists JSON. While there are various ways to perform
this task, Angular contains a built-in HTTP Client module that you can use.

Begin by importing the Angular HTTP Client module into the root module.

app.module.ts
[source, javascript, linenums, role="code_column"]
----
include::finish/src/main/frontend/src/app/app.module.ts[]
----

Angular applications consist of modules, which are groups of classes that
perform specific functions. The Angular framework provides its own modules
for applications to use. One of these modules, the HTTP Client module, includes
convenience classes that make it easier and quicker for you to consume a RESTful API
from your application.

The provided application is organized into a module, called the root module, and
defined in the [hotspot]`app.module.ts` file. You must import the HTTP Client module
into the root module for its classes to be accessible from the application's code.

[role="code_command hotspot", subs="quotes"]
----
#Update the `app.module.ts` file.#
`src/main/frontend/src/app/app.module.ts`
----
[role="edit_command_text"]
Import the [hotspot=importHttpClientModule]`HttpClientModule` class into the file, then
update the [hotspot=importsArray]`imports` array within the
[hotspot=atNgModule]`@NgModule` declaration to include
[hotspot=httpClientModule]`HttpClientModule`.

== Creating the Angular component

You need to create the component that is used in the application to acquire and display
data from the REST API. The component file contains two classes: the service, which
handles data access, and the component itself, which handles the presentation of the
data. The provided Angular application already contains a component.

app.component.ts
[source, javascript, linenums, role="code_column"]
----
include::finish/src/main/frontend/src/app/app.component.ts[]
----

=== Defining a service to fetch data

Services are classes in Angular that are designed to share their functionality across
entire applications. A good service performs only one function, and it performs this
function well. In this case, the `ArtistsService` class requests artists data from the
REST service.

[role="code_command hotspot", subs="quotes"]
----
#Update the `app.component.ts` file.#
`src/main/frontend/src/app/app.component.ts`
----
[role="edit_command_text"]
Create the entire [hotspot=artistsServiceClass]`ArtistsService` class with the
[hotspot=atInjectable]`@Injectable` annotation. Add the
[hotspot=importHttpClient]`HttpClient` and [hotspot=importInjectable]`Injectable`
import statements at the top.

The file imports the [hotspot=importHttpClient]`HttpClient` class and the
[hotspot=importInjectable]`Injectable` decorator.

The [hotspot=artistsServiceClass]`ArtistsService` class is defined. While it shares the
file of the component class [hotspot=appComponentClass]`AppComponent`, it can also be
defined in its own file. The class is annotated by [hotspot=atInjectable]`@Injectable`
so instances of it can be provided to other classes anywhere in the application.

The class injects an instance of the [hotspot=httpClientInstance]`HttpClient` class,
which it uses to request data from the REST API. It contains the
[hotspot=artistsUrl]`ARTISTS_URL` constant, which points to the API endpoint it
requests data from. The URL does not contain a host name because the artists API
endpoint is accessible from the same host as the Angular application. You can send
requests to external APIs by specifying the full URL. Finally, it implements a
[hotspot=fetchArtistsMethod]`fetchArtists()` method that makes the request and returns
the result.

To obtain the data for display on the page, the
[hotspot=fetchArtistsMethod]`fetchArtists()` method tries to use the injected
[hotspot=httpInstanceAndAwaitFeatureAndHttpGetAndToPromise]`http` instance to perform a
`GET` HTTP request to the [hotspot=artistsUrl]`ARTISTS_URL` constant. If successful, it
returns the result. If an error occurs, it prints the error message to the console.

The [hotspot=fetchArtistsMethod]`fetchArtists()` method uses a feature of JavaScript
called [hotspot=asyncFeature]`async`/
[hotspot=httpInstanceAndAwaitFeatureAndHttpGetAndToPromise]`await` to make requests and
receive responses without preventing the application from working while it waits. For
the result of the
[hotspot=httpInstanceAndAwaitFeatureAndHttpGetAndToPromise]`HttpClient.get()` method to
be compatible with this feature, it must be converted to a Promise by invoking its
[hotspot=httpInstanceAndAwaitFeatureAndHttpGetAndToPromise]`toPromise()` method. A
Promise is how JavaScript represents the state of an asynchronous operation. If you
want to learn more, check out https://promisejs.org[^] for an introduction.

=== Defining a component to consume a service

Components are the basic building blocks of Angular application user interfaces.
Components are made up of a TypeScript class annotated with the
[hotspot=atComponent]`@Component` annotation and the HTML template file (specified by
[hotspot=templateUrl]`templateUrl`) and CSS style files (specified by
[hotspot=styleUrls]`styleUrls`.)

Update the [hotspot=appComponentClass]`AppComponent` class to use the artists service
to fetch the artists data and save it so the component can display it.

[role="code_command hotspot", subs="quotes"]
----
#Update the `app.component.ts` file.#
`src/main/frontend/src/app/app.component.ts`
----
[role="edit_command_text"]
Replace the entire [hotspot=appComponentClass]`AppComponent` class with the
[hotspot=atComponent]`@Component` annotation. Add
[hotspot=importOnInitAndAngularCorePackage]`OnInit` to the list of imported classes at
the top.

The [hotspot=providersProperty]`providers` property on the
[hotspot=atComponent]`@Component` annotation indicates that this component provides the
[hotspot=artistsServiceClass]`ArtistsService` to other classes in the application.

[hotspot=appComponentClass]`AppComponent` implements [hotspot=onInitInterface]`OnInit`,
which is a special interface called a lifecycle hook. When Angular displays, updates,
or removes a component, it calls a specific function, the lifecycle hook, on the
component so the component can run code in response to this event. This component
responds to the [hotspot=onInitInterface]`OnInit` event via the
[hotspot=ngOnInitMethod]`ngOnInit` method, which fetches and populates the component's
template with data when it is initialized for display. The file imports the
[hotspot=importOnInitAndAngularCorePackage]`OnInit` interface from the
[hotspot=importOnInitAndAngularCorePackage]`@angular/core` package.

[hotspot=artistsClassMember]`artists` is a class member of type `any[]` that starts out
as an empty array. It holds the artists retrieved from the service so the template can
display them.

An instance of the [hotspot=artistsServiceInstanceDeclaration]`ArtistsService` class is
injected into the constructor and is accessible by any function that is defined in the
class. The [hotspot=ngOnInitMethod]`ngOnInit` function uses the
[hotspot=artistsServiceInstance]`artistsService` instance to request the artists data.
Since the [hotspot=fetchArtistsMethod]`fetchArtists()` method is an `async` function,
it returns a Promise. To retrieve the data from the request,
[hotspot=ngOnInitMethod]`ngOnInit` calls the [hotspot=thenClause]`then()` method on the
Promise which takes in the data and stores it to the
[hotspot=artistsClassMember]`artists` class member.

== Creating the Angular component template

Now that you have a service to fetch the data and a component to store it in, you
will create a template to specify how the data will be displayed on the page. When you
visit the page in the browser, the component populates the template to display
the artists data with formatting.

[role="code_command hotspot", subs="quotes"]
----
#Replace the component's template file `app.component.html`.#
`src/main/frontend/src/app/app.component.html`
----

app.component.html
[source, html, linenums, role="code_column"]
----
include::finish/src/main/frontend/src/app/app.component.html[]
----

The template contains a [hotspot=artistsDiv]`div` element that is enumerated using the
`*ngFor` directive. The `artist` variable is bound to the `artists` member of the
component. The div element itself and all elements contained within it are repeated for
each artist, and the [hotspot=artistNameAndAlbumsLengthPlaceholders]`{{ artist.name }}`
and [hotspot=artistNameAndAlbumsLengthPlaceholders]`{{ artist.albums.length }}`
placeholders are populated with the information from each artist. The same strategy is
used to display each [hotspot=albumDiv]`album` by each artist.

The Open Liberty server is already started, and the REST service is running. You can
recompile the front end by running the following command:
[role='command']
```
mvn generate-resources
```

Then, point your browser to the web application root
http://localhost:9080/app[http://localhost:9080/app^] to see the following output:

[subs="quotes", role="no_copy"]
----
foo wrote 2 albums:
    Album titled *album_one* by *foo* contains *12* tracks
    Album tilted *album_two* by *foo* contains *15* tracks
bar wrote 1 albums:
    Album titled *foo walks into a bar* by *bar* contains *12* tracks
dj wrote 0 albums:
----

If you use the `curl` command to visit the web application root URL,
you will only see the application root page in HTML. The Anuglar framework
uses JavaScript to render the HTML to display the application data.
A web browser runs JavaScript, and the `curl` command doesn't.


== Testing the Angular client

No explicit code directly uses the consumed artist JSON, so you don't need to write
any test cases.

Whenever you change and build your Angular implementation, the application root at
http://localhost:9080/app[http://localhost:9080/app^] reflects the changes
automatically. You can visit the root to manually check whether the artist JSON was
consumed correctly. You can rebuild only your Angular front end by running the
following command:
[role='command']
```
mvn generate-resources
```

When you are done checking the application root, exit development mode by
pressing `CTRL+C` in the shell session where you ran the server,
or by typing `q` and then pressing the `enter/return` key.

Although the Angular application that this guide shows you how to build is simple,
when you build more complex Angular applications, testing becomes a crucial part
of your development lifecycle. If you need to write test cases, follow the official
unit testing and end-to-end testing documentation on the
https://angular.io/guide/testing[official Angular page^].



== Great work! You're done!

You just accessed a simple RESTful web service and consumed its resources by using
Angular in Open Liberty.

include::{common-includes}/attribution.adoc[subs="attributes"]
